IzSound - Copyright (c) 2003 Julien PONGE - All rights reserved.

Homepage: http://www.izforge.com/izsound/
Contact:  <julien@izforge.com> <julien_ponge@yahoo.fr>

[ Introduction ]

IzSound is a stream-oriented sound processing library. It has been designed
around small DSP units that can be chained together to operate on the sound data
stream. While there are already several libraries of this kind, most of them are
either too simplists or too complicated. What's more, they are often written in
the C programming language and lead to libraries having a lot of functions and
data structures. Using an object oriented language can dramatically ease the
learning process by having a clearer overview.

That's why IzSound is written in C++ in order to use the object oriented
paradigms. Moreover, the C++ STL brings the concepts of generic programming and
IzSound makes an intensive use of both the containers and the algorithms brought
by the STL. This way it is built on both well tested data containers and
algorithmic bricks.

[ Components ]

IzSound in itself is a small library which defines the DspUnit class. This is
the base class of all the DSP units that can be plugged together to process the
sound data streams. This class embeds all the pluging logic, so it is very easy
to define a new DSP unit, the author has just to concentrate on the DSP job.

IzSound has a standard set of DSP units brought in a separate library
(libstdizdsp) which can read Ogg Vorbis files, crossfade two streams, actually
output the sound on your sound card, tweak the pitch and so on.

[ Licensing ]

IzSound and the components of the standard DSP library are licensed under a 2
clauses BSD-style license. Please note that the standard DSP library contains a
DSP unit that makes use of the libao library from the Xiph.org foundation. This
library beeing licensed under the terms of the GNU GPL license, your application
will have to be published under a license that is compatible with the GNU GPL
license. If this is a problem for you, the IzSound 'configure' script can
disable the compilation of this unit.

If you plan to contribute to the project, you can do it by sending patches or
new files. Please make it available under a free software license such as the
BSD, X11 or Zlib/PNG license. The GNU GPL would not be very much appreciated
for a DSP unit, but it is not a problem if it makes use of a GPL-covered
library.

The goal is that IzSound stays a non-copyleft free software library, so this is
why there is a requirement for non-copyleft DSP units. But as mentionned above,
a DSP unit can use a copylefted library and it is perfectly fine.
